- Use Abstractions to Simplify Design
- Make the Common Case Fast
- Performance via Parallelism
- Performance via Pipelining
- Performance via Prediction
- Hierarchy of Memories
- Dependability via Redundancy

# 1.3 Below your program
Two types of systems software are central to every computer:
- OS
	- Interface between a users program and the hardware.
		- Handling basic input/output operations
		- Allocating storage and memory
		- Providing for protected sharing of the computer among multiple apps using it at the same time.
- Compiler
	- Translation of a program written in a high-level language into instructions that hardware can execute. 

### From high level to hardware language
Instructions (collection of bits)
Binary language = machine language
Assembly language = programmer need to think like the computer.

# 1.4 Under the covers
Hardware performs the same basic functions:
- Inputting data
- Outputting data
- Processing data
- Storing data


### Five classic components of a computer:
- Input
	- Feed information into the computer
- Output
	- Convey result into of a computation to the user
- Memory
	- Programs and data reside in memory during execution.
	- DRAM (dynamic random access memory) is used for storing instructions and data. This memory is volatile (its content are lost when power is removed.)
	- To preserve data permanently, computers require non-volatile storage such as flash memory.
- Datapath
	- Responsible for performing arithmetic instructions.
- Control
	- Directs the datapath, memory and I/O units. Ensuring they follow the programs instructions.

Datapath and control can be combined and called "processor"






