#### 3 major components
- user agents
	- Mail reader/ mail client
	- eg. gmail
- mail servers
	- mailbox containts incoming messages
	- message queue of outgoing mail
- simple mail transfer protocol SMTP
	- client: sending mail server
	- server: receiving mail server

#### Scenario:
- UA is used to compose email
- The UA sends message to a mail server using SMTP. message placed in the message queue
- client side of SMTP at mail server opens TCP connection with receiving mail server.
- SMTP client sends alice message over the TCP connection
- Receiving mail server places the message in receivers mailbox
- Receiver invokes his UA to read message.

SMTP RFC
- uses TCP to reliably transfer email message from client to server, port 25 (smtp)
- three phases of trasnfer
	- SMTP handshaking(greeting)
	- SMTP transfer of messages
	- SMTP closure


#### Comparision with HTTP:

HTTP: client pull
SMTP: client push

both have ASCII command/response interaction, status codes

HTTP: each object encapsulated in its own response message.
SMTP: multiple objects sent in multipart message.

SMTP uses pesistent connections
SMTP require message to be in 7-bit ASCII
SMTP server uses CRLF.CRLF to determine end of message.


#### Retreiving email: mail access protocols
SMTP: delivery/storage of email messages to receivers server
Mail access protocol: retrieval from server:
- IMAP: Internet Mail Access Protocol: messages stored on server, IMAP provides retrieval, deletion, folders of stored messages on server.
